My approach to designing software is based on two concepts. First, never try to reinvent the wheel. I believe in innovation, but I also believe in the value of experience. Thus, my first step when approaching a problem is to look at how other people have solved similar ones. While I don't usually find a specific solution to my problem, I can usually find enough similar examples that I know where to start. Second, test after every change. I have learned from experience that, if I spend an hour coding without intermediate tests, I then spend at least double that undoing every single change until I find the one that caused the code to break. My work on this project has reinforced those concepts, as well as giving me a healthy understanding of the need for time management. As I worked through the design, I was able to build on the examples given each module, applying the new concepts to my current iteration of the project as I went. I believe that this approach will serve me well in the future, but I will need to work more on creating modular code. This was something that I struggled with in this project, and that I intend to work harder at in the future. If I had written my code in a more modular fashion, it would have been easier to put together the final project, as well as making it possible to more easily create a complex scene. This brings me to my next concept, which is learn from experience. I view my struggles in this class as opportunities to improve in the future, especially with regard to my future career. I am finding that software coding is an extremely high-pressure pursuit, and I need to be prepared for that. As I look towards the future, I believe that, while a knowledge of OpenGL may not be at the top of my necessary skills for everyday programming, the knowledge it provides of concepts like vector transformations, rendering pipelines, and 3D coordinates will certainly be helpful in the future. Even basic 2D displays are based on some form of graphics rendering, and I expect that I will be dealing with those quite frequently. As is so often the case, it is less the specific knowledge that counts, and more the foundation that it creates on which to build in the future.
